--- BLOCK 1 ---
Figure E.11 — Example of a straightness specification with a band pass filter using one filter type

--- BLOCK 2 ---
Because band pass filters include a short-wave pass filter, they can only be used for form specifications,
i.e. specifications that do not reference datums, because short-wave pass filters remove the location
and orientation attributes from the toleranced feature.
Figure E.12 shows an example of a straightness specification with a band pass filter using two different
filter types. The long-wave pass filter shall be written before the short-wave pass filter. The specification
element S indicates that a spline filter is specified. The value 0,08 indicates a 0,08 mm cutoff and
because the “-” follows the value, it is a long-wave pass filter, which removes wavelengths shorter than
the cutoff value. The specification element CW indicates that a complex wavelet filter is specified. The
value 2,5 indicates a 2,5 mm cutoff and because it is preceded by “-” it is a short-wave pass filter, which
removes wavelengths longer than the cutoff value. The specification applies to a feature that has been
filtered with a 0,08 mm long-wave pass spline filter and a 2,5 mm short-wave pass complex wavelet
filter, which together form a band pass filter that retains wavelengths between 0,08 mm and 2,5 mm,
effectively making this a type of waviness specification The intersection plane indicator adjacent to the
tolerance indicator indicates that the specification applies to line elements parallel to datum C, so each
individual filtered line shall be straight within a tolerance zone defined as the space between two lines
0,2 mm apart.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
Figure E.12 — Example of a straightness specification with a band pass filter using two
different filter types

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Figure E.13 shows an example of a roundness specification. The specification element G indicates that a
Gaussian filter is specified. Because it is a roundness specification, the toleranced feature is considered
a closed feature and the nesting index is therefore given in UPR (undulations per revolution). The
value 50 therefore indicates 50 UPR and because it is followed by “-” it is a long-wave pass filter, which
removes short wavelengths (higher UPR numbers). The specification therefore applies to a feature that
has been filtered with a 50 UPR Gaussian long-wave pass filter. Each individual filtered circumferential
line shall be contained in a tolerance zone defined as the space between two concentric circles with
0,01 mm radius difference.

