--- BLOCK 1 ---
B.9 Position of the limiting surfaces of a tolerance zone relative to the theoretical
exact feature (TEF)
When the toleranced feature is a surface (unrelated or related to a datum or a datum system) the
limiting surfaces of the tolerance zone are established as the envelope surfaces of points at a distance
0,5 × t (on both sides) from points on the theoretical exact feature TEF (surface), which in this case is
the reference feature, where t is the tolerance value. At the edge of the toleranced feature, the limiting
surfaces are extended assuming tangent continuity of the toleranced feature.
The default orientation of the distance 0,5 × t is perpendicular to the theoretical exact surface in
each point.
Other orientations can be controlled by orientation plane indicators, see Clause 14, or direction feature
indicators, see Clause 15.
At discontinuity points the limiting surface is a sphere, SR = 0,5 × t connecting the limiting surfaces,
where t is the tolerance value.
NOTE The tolerance zone can be related to a TEF or a pattern or to a datum or datum system by TED(s).

--- BLOCK 2 ---
B.10 Geometrical characteristic symbol rules

--- BLOCK 3 ---
B.10.1 Toleranced feature
The toleranced feature is by default a complete single feature.
A nominal complex feature may consist of:
— a set of portions of planes, cylinders, spheres, cones, or tori (or a combination of these);
— a set of portions of straight lines or circles.
A restricted feature indication, a united feature indication or a combined zone indication may be used
to specify such a feature as one continuous feature. Without such an indication, the toleranced feature
is only:
— the single portion of this complex feature identified by the leader line;
— the set of features identified by the leader line(s), an “all around” modifier, or an “all over” modifier
considered individually.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
B.10.2 Form specifications
When a form specification uses the geometrical characteristic symbol of
— Flatness, cylindricity:
— The shape of the nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given.
— The areal nature of the nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given.
— Straightness, roundness:
— The shape of the nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given.
— The linear nature of the nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given.
— Surface profile:
— The shape of the nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given by complete indications on the
drawing or by queries of the CAD model, see ISO 16792.

