--- BLOCK 1 ---
B.5 Theoretical exact feature (TEF)
The shape of the theoretical exact feature (TEF) for a toleranced feature is defined implicitly by the
drawing view(s) or by the CAD model. The dimensions of the TEF are defined by implicit and/or explicit
TEDs or by other means, e.g. formulae, tables and interpolation algorithms, CAD data, etc.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
B.6 Relations between theoretical exact features
Relations between two or more theoretical exact features are established by implicit or explicit TED(s),
or both.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
B.7 Relation between theoretical exact feature(s) and a datum or a datum system
Relations between theoretical exact feature(s) and a datum or a datum system are established by one
or more implicit and/or indicated TEDs.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
B.8 Shape of tolerance zones
When the toleranced feature is a surface (integral or derived), the shape of the surfaces limiting the
tolerance zone are defined from the theoretical exact feature, TEF, (integral or derived).
When the toleranced feature is an integral straight line the shape of the tolerance zone is the space
between two parallel lines, see e.g. Figures 90 and 91 or two non-parallel lines. The latter is the case
when the tolerance zone has a variable width, see 7.2.
When the toleranced feature is an integral circle the shape of the tolerance zone is the space between
two concentric circles, see e.g. Figures 98 and 99, two parallel circles on a conical surface, or two
parallel circles of the same diameter.
When the toleranced feature is a median line the shape of the tolerance zone is:
— the space between two parallel planes or two non-parallel planes (i.e. a wedge, when the tolerance
zone has a variable width, see 7.2 ) when the shape is not given by the indication ø in front of the
tolerance value and the toleranced feature is nominally straight, see e.g. Figures 112 and 113;
— a cylinder or a cone (when the tolerance zone has a variable width, see 7.2) when the shape is given
by the indication ø in front of the tolerance value and the toleranced feature is nominally straight,
see e.g. Figures 118 and 119;
— a non-straight circular or conical tube (when the tolerance zone has a variable width, see 7.2) when
the shape is given by the indication ø in front of the tolerance value and the tolerance feature is
nominally non-straight, see ISO 1660.
When the toleranced feature is a derived centre of a sphere, the shape of the tolerance zone is:
— the space between two parallel planes when the shape is not given by the indication ø or Sø in front
of the tolerance value,
— a cylinder when the shape is given by the indication ø in front of the tolerance value, or
— a sphere when the shape is given by the indication Sø in front of the tolerance value, see e.g.
Figures 150 and 151.
When the toleranced feature is a derived centre of a circular cross-section and the shape is given by the
indication ø in front of the tolerance value, the shape of the tolerance zone is a circle, see e.g. Figures 163
and 164.
NOTE A derived centre point exists for a sphere, a circle and a torus. The derived centre point of a torus
cannot be specified with the current rules.

