--- BLOCK 1 ---
By default:
— if the toleranced feature is a surface, then the shape of the tolerance zone is defined as the space
between two equidistant surfaces based on the nominal geometry of the toleranced feature, see
17.8 for an example.
— if the toleranced feature is an integral line, then the shape of the tolerance zone is defined as the
area between two equidistant lines in the intersection plane based on the nominal geometry of the
toleranced feature, see 17.6 for an example.
— if the toleranced feature is a nominally straight derived line, then the shape of the tolerance zone is
defined as the space between two equidistant planes, see 17.10.2 for an example.
If the toleranced feature is a line or a point and the tolerance zone is a circle, a cylinder, or a circular
tube, the tolerance value shall be preceded by the symbol “⌀” see Figures 94 and 95. If the toleranced
feature is a point and the tolerance zone is spherical, the tolerance value shall be preceded by the
symbol “S⌀”, see Figure 150.
The tolerance value is a mandatory specification element. The tolerance value shall be given in the
unit used for linear dimensions. The tolerance value gives the width of the tolerance zone, which is by
default perpendicular to the toleranced feature.
By default, the tolerance zone has a constant width. If the width of the tolerance zone varies linearly
between two values, these two values shall be indicated separated by a “-”, see Figure 14 and 7.2.
An indication using the between symbol adjacent to the tolerance indicator, see 9.1.4, shall be used to
identify the two locations where each value applies, see Figure 14.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
Figure 14 — Specification of a linearly variable tolerance zone

--- BLOCK 3 ---
If the variation is not linear, it shall be indicated by other means.
By default, the specification applies to the entire toleranced feature. If the specification applies to any
restricted portion within the total extent of the feature, the extent of the restricted portion in linear or
angular units, or both, (as applicable) shall be added after the tolerance value and separated from it by
an oblique stroke. If a tolerance applies to a specific restricted portion within the extents of the feature,
the methods in 9.1.3 are used. Figure 15 shows a requirement that is limited to line elements. Figure 16
shows a requirement that is limited to circular areas. See also Clause 11.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Figure 15 — Linear-restricted tolerance zone specification

--- BLOCK 5 ---
Figure 16 — Circular area restricted tolerance zone specification

