--- BLOCK 1 ---
— The angular and linear dimensions between the toleranced feature and the datum or datum-
system shall be defined by TEDs. These TEDs are defined explicitly or implicitly by drawing
indications.
— Coaxiality/concentricity:
— The toleranced feature is a derived feature which is nominally a straight line (median line) or a
point (centre point).
— When both are possible then the toleranced feature is by default the line, unless an ACS (Any
Cross-section) modifier is indicated.
— The angular and linear dimensions between the toleranced feature and the datum or datum-
system are always 0° and 0 mm.
— Symmetry:
— The toleranced feature is an integral or a derived feature.
— If the toleranced feature is an integral feature, the shape of the nominal toleranced feature is a
point, a straight line or a plane.
— If the toleranced feature is a derived feature, the shape of the nominal toleranced feature is a
point, a straight line or a plane.
— When both are possible then the toleranced feature is by default the surface, unless an
intersection plane indicator is indicated.
— The angular and linear dimensions between the toleranced feature and the datum or datum-
system are always 0° and 0 mm.
— Surface profile or line profile:
— This specification is a location specification only when the tolerance indicator refers to at
least one datum that can lock a linear distance and no “><” modifier is indicated in the second
compartment. Otherwise, this specification is a form or an orientation specification (see B.10.2
and B.10.3).
— The shape of the nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given by the complete indications on
the drawing or by queries of the CAD model, see ISO 16792.
— The nature of the nominal toleranced feature (linear or areal) is explicitly given by the symbol.
— The angular and linear dimensions between the toleranced feature and the datum or datum-
system shall be defined by TEDs. These TEDs are defined explicitly or implicitly. All possible linear
distances shall be considered between the nominal toleranced feature and a datum indicated in
the tolerance indicated, except when the modifier >< is placed after the considered datum.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
B.10.5 Intersection planes
An implicit or explicit intersection plane is used to define the toleranced feature when the geometrical
characteristic symbol indicates that the nature of the nominal toleranced feature is a line, or an
intersection plane indicator is added to the specification.
It is defined implicitly in the case of:
— Straightness of the generatrix of a cone or a cylinder: The intersection plane is a plane going through
the axis of the associated feature established from the extracted integral feature (symmetry plane
from the axis);

