--- BLOCK 1 ---
UZ
If the offset variation is not linear, it shall be specified, e.g. in the CAD model.
The specification element can only be used for integral features.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
8.2.2.1.4 Constraint specification elements

--- BLOCK 3 ---
8.2.2.1.4.1 Unspecified linear tolerance zone offset specification element
If the tolerance zone is allowed to be offset from being symmetric around the TEF by a constant but
unspecified amount, the symbol shall be indicated.
The nominal size of the TEF may not be defined by a TED for circles, cylinders, spheres and tori, e.g. in
the case where there is only a ± tolerance indicated for the size. In this case, the specification element
shall always be indicated for line profile specifications and surface profile specifications to make it
explicit that the size of the TEF is not fixed.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Key
1 single complex theoretically exact feature (TEF)
2 two of the infinite number of spheres or circles defining the offset theoretical feature, i.e. the reference feature
3 reference feature, equidistant from the TEF
4 limits of the tolerance zone
5 three of the infinite number of spheres or circles defining the tolerance zone along the reference feature
r constant, but unspecified offset
This figure shows how the shape of the offset tolerance zone is defined from the TEF. For a form tolerance, i.e. a
tolerance without reference to datums, the TEF is unconstrained, i.e. the tolerance zone, when combined with an
offset value, may adopt any location or orientation when attempting to fit to the toleranced feature (see 4.8). TEDs and
reference to one or more datums in the tolerance indicator can be used to constrain the TEF together with the zone.

--- BLOCK 5 ---
Figure 23 — Offset tolerance zone with unspecified offset

--- BLOCK 6 ---
NOTE 1 Because there are no bounds on the offset, a specification with the modifier is usually combined
with a specification using a larger tolerance without the modifier. When both specifications are satisfied, this
combination controls the shape of the tolerance feature within the larger, fixed tolerance zone.

