--- BLOCK 1 ---
— the width of the tolerance zone is not normal to the specified geometry, or
— a roundness specification is applied to a revolute surface that is neither cylindrical nor spherical,
see Figure 88.
For geometrical specifications that include direction feature indicators, the following applies.
The direction of the width of the tolerance zone is established from the datum indicated in the direction
feature indicator as follows:
— when the direction is defined as perpendicular to the surface of the toleranced feature, the run-out
symbol shall be used and the toleranced feature (or its derived feature) shall be indicated as the
datum in the direction feature indicator,
— when the direction is defined with an angle equal to 0° or 90°, the parallelism symbol or
perpendicularity symbol shall be used, respectively,
— when the direction is defined with an angle different from 0° or 90°, the angularity symbol shall be
used and an explicit TED angle shall be defined between the direction feature and the datum of the
direction feature indicator.
The possible direction features are given in Table 10 . They depend on the datum used to establish the
direction feature and how the direction is derived from this datum (as defined by the symbol indicated).

--- BLOCK 2 ---
Table 10 — Application cases of direction feature
Direction feature
Indicated datum
Parallel to Perpendicular to Inclined to Run-out to
Axis of revolute surface a
OK OK OK OK
(e.g. cylinder or cone)
Plane (integral or median) OK OK OK Not applicable
a
Run-out can only be used with the toleranced feature itself indicated as the datum and in this case the direction is
given by the surface of the toleranced feature itself, not its derived feature.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
An example is given in Figure 85.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Figure 88 — Indication of a roundness specification perpendicular to the surface of the
toleranced feature

--- BLOCK 5 ---
For former practice, see A.3.3.

--- BLOCK 6 ---
16 Collection plane

--- BLOCK 7 ---
16.1 Role of collection planes
Collection planes shall be used when the “all around” symbol is applied. The collection plane identifies a
family of parallel planes, which identifies the features covered by the “all around” indication.

