--- BLOCK 1 ---
Note 3 to entry: A TED can be explicit or implicit. When indicated, an explicit TED is indicated by a rectangular
frame including a value and sometimes an associated symbol, e.g. ø or R. On 3D models, explicit TEDs may be
available by queries.
Note 4 to entry: An implicit TED is not indicated. An implicit TED is one of the following: 0 mm, 0°, 90°, 180°, 270°
and the angular distance between equally spaced features on a complete circle.
Note 5 to entry: TEDs are not affected by individual or general specifications.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
3.8
theoretically exact feature
TEF
nominal feature with ideal shape, size, orientation and location, as applicable
Note 1 to entry: A theoretically exact feature (TEF) can have any shape and can be defined by explicitly indicated
theoretically exact dimensions (TEDs) or implicitly defined in CAD data.
Note 2 to entry: The theoretically exact location and orientation, if applicable, is relative to the indicated datum
system for the specification of the corresponding actual feature.
Note 3 to entry: See also ISO 25378.
EXAMPLE 1 The spherical surface shown in Figure 110 is a theoretically exact feature, with a defined spherical
radius and a defined location and orientation relative to datum A.
EXAMPLE 2 A virtual condition, e.g. a maximum material virtual condition (MMVC) according to ISO 2692 is a
theoretically exact feature.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
3.9
united feature
compound integral feature which may or may not be continuous, considered as a single feature
Note 1 to entry: A united feature can have a derived feature.
Note 2 to entry: The definition of a united feature is intentionally very broad to avoid excluding any useful
applications. However, it is not intended that a united feature can be used to define something that is by nature
several separate features. For example, building a united feature from two parallel, non-coaxial cylindrical
features, or two parallel, non-coaxial rectangular tubes (each built from two perpendicular pairs of parallel
planes) is not an intended use.
EXAMPLE 1 A cylindrical feature defined from a set of arc features, such as the outside diameter of a spline, is
an intended use of a united feature, see Figure 48.
EXAMPLE 2 Two complete coaxial cylinders, which do not have the same nominal diameter, cannot be
considered as a united feature.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
4 Basic concepts

--- BLOCK 5 ---
4.1 Geometrical tolerances shall be specified in accordance with functional requirements.
Manufacturing and inspection requirements can also influence geometrical tolerancing.
NOTE Indicating geometrical tolerances does not necessarily imply the use of any particular method of
production, measurement or gauging.

--- BLOCK 6 ---
4.2 A geometrical tolerance applied to a feature defines the tolerance zone around the reference
feature within which the toleranced feature shall be contained.
NOTE 1 In some cases, i.e. when using the characteristic parameter modifiers introduced in this document,
see Figure 13 , geometrical specifications can define characteristics instead of zones.
NOTE 2 All dimensions given in the figures in this document are in millimetres.

