--- BLOCK 1 ---
Foreword

--- BLOCK 2 ---
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards
bodies (ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out
through ISO technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical
committee has been established has the right to be represented on that committee. International
organizations, governmental and non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work.
ISO collaborates closely with the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of
electrotechnical standardization.
The procedures used to develop this document and those intended for its further maintenance are
described in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1. In particular the different approval criteria needed for the
different types of ISO documents should be noted. This document was drafted in accordance with the
editorial rules of the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2 (see www .iso .org/ directives).
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of
patent rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. Details of
any patent rights identified during the development of the document will be in the Introduction and/or
on the ISO list of patent declarations received (see www .iso .org/ patents).
Any trade name used in this document is information given for the convenience of users and does not
constitute an endorsement.
For an explanation on the meaning of ISO specific terms and expressions related to conformity assessment,
as well as information about ISO’s adherence to the World Trade Organization (WTO) principles in the
Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) see the following URL: www. iso .org/ iso/ foreword .html.
This document was prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 213, Dimensional and geometrical product
specifications and verifications .
This fourth edition cancels and replaces the third edition (ISO 1101:2012), which has been technically
revised.
It also incorporates the Technical Corrigendum ISO 1101:2012/Cor.1:2013.
The main changes are as follows.
— Tools have been added to specify the filtering of the toleranced feature and a line type has been
designated for its illustration.
— Tools have been added to tolerance associated features.
— Tools have been added to specify form characteristics by specifying the reference feature association
and the specified parameter.
— Tools have been added to specify the constraints to the tolerance zone.
— The rules for specifications using “all around” or “all over” modifiers have been clarified.
— The direction of the tolerance zone in the case of roundness tolerances for revolute surfaces that are
neither cylindrical nor spherical, e.g. cones shall now always be indicated to avoid an exception to
the general rule that specifications for integral features apply perpendicular to the surface.
— The “from-to” symbol has been retired and replaced by the “between” symbol.

