--- BLOCK 1 ---
3.4
direction feature
ideal feature, established from an extracted feature of the workpiece, identifying the direction of local
deviations
Note 1 to entry: The direction feature can be a plane, a cylinder or a cone.
Note 2 to entry: For a line in a surface, the use of a direction feature makes it possible to change the direction of
the width of the tolerance zone.
Note 3 to entry: The direction feature is used when the tolerance value applies in a specified direction instead of
normal to the specified geometry.
Note 4 to entry: The direction feature is constructed from the datum indicated in the second compartment of
the direction feature indicator. The geometry of the direction feature depends on the geometry of the toleranced
feature.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
3.5
compound continuous feature
single feature composed of more than one single feature joined together without gaps
Note 1 to entry: A compound continuous feature can be closed or not.
Note 2 to entry: A non-closed compound continuous feature can be defined using the “between” symbol (see 9.1.4)
and, if applicable, the UF modifier.
Note 3 to entry: A closed compound continuous feature can be defined using the “all around” symbol (see 9.1.2)
and the UF modifier. In this case, it is a set of single features whose intersection with any plane parallel to a
collection plane is a line or a point.
Note 4 to entry: A closed compound continuous feature can be defined using the “all over” symbol (see 9.1.2) and
the UF modifier.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
3.6
collection plane
plane, established from a feature on the workpiece, defining a closed compound continuous feature
Note 1 to entry: The collection plane is always used when the “all around” symbol is applied.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
3.7
theoretically exact dimension
TED
linear or angular dimension used in GPS operations to define theoretically exact geometry, extents,
locations and orientations of features
Note 1 to entry: For the purpose of this document, the term “theoretically exact dimension” has been
abbreviated as TED.
Note 2 to entry: A TED can be used to define the following:
— the nominal shape and dimensions of features;
— the definition of theoretically exact features (TEF);
— the location and dimensions of portions of features, including restricted toleranced features;
— the length of projected toleranced features;
— the relative location and orientation of two or more tolerance zones;
— the relative location and orientation of datum targets, including moveable datum targets;
— the location and orientation of tolerance zones relative to datums and datum systems;
— the direction of the width of tolerance zones.

