--- BLOCK 1 ---
16.2 Features to be used for establishing collection planes
The same types of features that can be used for intersection planes can also be used to establish
collection planes.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
16.3 Graphical language
When applied, the collection plane indicator, see Figure 89, shall be placed as an extension to the right
of the tolerance indicator.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
NOTE The same symbols that can be used in the first compartment of the intersection plane indicator can
also be used in the first compartment of the collection plane indicator with identical meaning.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Figure 89 — Collection plane indicator

--- BLOCK 5 ---
16.4 Rules
A collection plane shall be indicated when the “all around” symbol is used to identify that a specification
applies to a collection of features. A collection plane identifies a set of single features whose intersection
with any plane parallel to the collection plane is a line or a point.
For examples, see Figure 51 and Figure 53.

--- BLOCK 6 ---
17 Definitions of geometrical specifications

--- BLOCK 7 ---
17.1 General
An explanation based on examples of the various geometrical specifications and their tolerance zones
are provided in this clause. The illustrations accompanying the definitions only show those deviations
which relate to the specific definition. The underlying rules are summarized in Annex B.
NOTE The 3D illustrations in ISO 1101 are intended to illustrate how a specification can be fully indicated
with visible annotation. Alternatively, the same specification can be indicated in accordance with ISO 16792. In
this case, it is possible that some elements of the specification are available through a query function or other
interrogation of information on the model instead of being indicated using visible annotation.

--- BLOCK 8 ---
17.2 Straightness specification
The toleranced feature can be an integral feature or a derived feature. The nature and shape of the
nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given as a straight line or a set of straight lines, which is a linear
feature.
In Figure 90 , any extracted line on the upper surface, as specified by the intersection plane indicator,
shall be contained between two parallel straight lines 0,1 apart. For deprecated 2D practice, see A.2.1.

