--- BLOCK 1 ---
The specification applies to each surface or line element independently, unless otherwise specified (e.g.
by using a CZ symbol).

--- BLOCK 2 ---
9.1.4 Continuous, non-closed toleranced feature
If a specification applies to one identified restricted part of a feature or to continuous restricted parts
of continuous features, but does not apply to the entire outline of the cross-sections (or entire surface
represented by the outline), this restriction shall be indicated by
1) identifying the start and the end of the toleranced feature; and
2) either outlining the surface portion(s) involved using a long-dashed dotted wide line (in accordance
with ISO 128-24 type 04.2) or by using the symbol “ ” (called “between”).
When using the between symbol, the points, lines or surfaces that identify the start and end of the
toleranced feature shall each be identified by a capital letter connected to it by a leader line terminating
with an arrow. If the point or line is not at the boundary of an integral feature, its location shall be
indicated by TEDs.
If the toleranced feature is a derived feature, the intersection with a feature can be identified as a limit
of the derived feature.
The between symbol “ ” shall be used between two capital letters that identify the start and the end
of the toleranced feature. This feature (compound toleranced feature) consists of all segments or areas
between the start and the end of the identified features or parts of features.
In order to clearly identify the toleranced feature, the geometrical tolerance indication shall be
connected to the compound toleranced feature by a reference line and a leader line terminating with
an arrow on the outline of the compound toleranced feature (see the example in Figure 60). The arrow
may also be placed on a reference line using a leader line to point to the surface.
The tolerance requirement applies to each surface or line element independently, unless otherwise
specified, e.g. by using a CZ symbol to combine the tolerance zones or by using the UF modifier to
indicate that the compound feature shall be considered as one feature.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
NOTE The drawing is incomplete. The nominal geometry of the profile is not defined.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Figure 60 — Example of restricted feature — Toleranced feature is the upper surface starting
at line J and finishing at line K

