--- BLOCK 1 ---
British Standards Institution (BSI)
BSI is the national body responsible for preparing British Standards and other
standards-related publications, information and services.
BSI is incorporated by Royal Charter. British Standards and other standardization
products are published by BSI Standards Limited.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
We bring together business, industry, government, consumers, innovators For permission to reproduce content from BSI publications contact the BSI
and About others us to shape their combined experience and expertise into standards Copyright Reproducing & Licensing extracts team.
-based solutions.
The knowledge embodied in our standards has been carefully assembled in
a dependable format and refined through our open consultation process. Our range of subscription services are designed to make using standards
Organizations of all sizes and across all sectors choose standards to help Subscriptions easier for you. For further information on our subscription products go to
them achieve their goals. bsigroup.com/subscriptions.
With you’ll have instant access to over 55,000
British and adopted European and international standards from your desktop.
We can provide you with the knowledge that your organization needs It’s available 24/7 and is refreshed daily so you’ll always be up to date.
to Information succeed. Find out on more standards about British Standards by visiting our website at You can British keep Standards in touch with Online standards (BSOL) developments and receive substantial
bsigroup.com/standards or contacting our Customer Services team or discounts on the purchase price of standards, both in single copy and subscription
Knowledge Centre. format, by becoming a .
is an updating service exclusive to BSI Subscribing Members. You will
automatically receive the latest hard copy of your standards when they’re
BSI Subscribing Member
You can buy and download PDF versions of BSI publications, including British revised or replaced.
Buying and adopted standards European and international standards, through our website at PLUS
To find out more about becoming a BSI Subscribing Member and the benefits
bsigroup.com/shop, where hard copies can also be purchased.
of membership, please visit bsigroup.com/shop.
If you need international and foreign standards from other Standards Development
With a you are able to host standards
Organizations, hard copies can be ordered from our Customer Services team.
publications on your intranet. Licences can cover as few or as many users as you
wish. With updates supplied as soon as they’re available, you can be sure your
documentation Multi-User is current. Network For Licence further information, (MUNL) email subscriptions@bsigroup.com.
All the content in BSI publications, including British Standards, is the property
of Copyright and copyrighted in by BSI BSI or publications some person or entity that owns copyright in the
information used (such as the international standardization bodies) and has
Our British Standards and other publications are updated by amendment or revision.
formally licensed such information to BSI for commercial publication and use.
Revisions We continually improve the quality of our products and services to benefit your
Save for the provisions below, you may not transfer, share or disseminate any
business. If you find an inaccuracy or ambiguity within a British Standard or other
portion of the standard to any other person. You may not adapt, distribute,
BSI publication please inform the Knowledge Centre.
commercially exploit, or publicly display the standard or any portion thereof in any
manner whatsoever without BSI’s prior written consent.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
Standards purchased in soft copy format: Useful +44 345 Contacts 086 9001
Storing • A British Standard and using purchased standards in soft copy format is licensed to a sole named Customer Services orders@bsigroup.com
user for personal or internal company use only. Tel: cservices@bsigroup.com
• The standard may be stored on more than 1 device provided that it is accessible Email (orders):
by the sole named user only and that only 1 copy is accessed at any one time. Email +44 (enquiries): 345 086 9001
• A single paper copy may be printed for personal or internal company use only. subscriptions@bsigroup.com
Subscriptions
Standards purchased in hard copy format: Tel:
• A British Standard purchased in hard copy format is for personal or internal Email: +44 20 8996 7004
company use only. knowledgecentre@bsigroup.com
Knowledge Centre
• It may not be further reproduced – in any format – to create an additional copy. Tel:
This includes scanning of the document.
Email: +44 20 8996 7070
If you need more than 1 copy of the document, or if you wish to share the
copyright@bsigroup.com
document on an internal network, you can save money by choosing a subscription Copyright & Licensing
product (see ‘Subscriptions’). Tel:
Email:
389 Chiswick High Road London W4 4AL UK
BSI Group Headquarters

