--- BLOCK 1 ---
The specification elements are explained in the following subclauses in the sequence shown in
Figure 13 . All specification elements are optional except the width element.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
a
For filters, see Tables C.1 and C.2.
b
For associations, see Table D.1.
c
For parameters, see Table D.2
d
For this column, it is possible to use more than one of the listed modifiers.
NOTE 1 The list of modifiers may be extended.
NOTE 2 Some of the information about the toleranced feature may be in adjacent indications, see 8.4.4.
NOTE 3 The last row in the figure indicates the subclause where the interpretation of the specification
elements is defined.
NOTE 4 The associated toleranced feature specification element changes the toleranced feature, see 8.2.2.2.2.
The characteristic association specification element changes the reference feature from which characteristic
parameters are calculated, see 8.2.2.3.1.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
Figure 13 — Specification elements in the tolerance zone, feature and characteristic section of
the tolerance indicator

--- BLOCK 4 ---
There shall be a space between specification elements from different numbered compartments, except
specification elements in compartments 6, 7, 10 and 11 (letters in circles) shall not be preceded by a space.
There shall be no spaces between the specification elements within one numbered compartment or
between the specification elements in compartment 1a and 1b and 5a and 5b, respectively.
If required, the filtering of the toleranced feature shall be defined by one or more letters followed
immediately by numbers without a space, see Figures E.9 to E.18.
The associated feature that the deviation is calculated from and/or the parameter shall be defined by
one or more letters from compartments 8 and 9 not followed by numbers. This is how these specification
elements can be distinguished from the filtering specification elements. This indication does not change
the toleranced feature, see Figures 38 to 41 and Figures 44 to 45.

--- BLOCK 5 ---
8.2.2.1 Tolerance zone specification elements

--- BLOCK 6 ---
8.2.2.1.1 Shape, width and extent specification elements
The shape specification element is an optional specification element.

