--- BLOCK 1 ---
14 Orientation planes

--- BLOCK 2 ---
14.1 Role of orientation planes
Orientation planes shall be indicated when
— the toleranced feature is a median line or a median point, and the width of the tolerance zone is
limited by two parallel planes, or
— the toleranced feature is a median point, and the tolerance zone is limited by a cylinder, and
— the tolerance zone is oriented from another feature, established from an extracted feature of the
workpiece, identifying the orientation of the tolerance zone.
See Figures 83, 84, 112, 114 and 116.
The orientation plane indicator controls both the orientation of the planes that limit the tolerance zone
(directly by the datum and the symbol in the indicator) and the orientation of the width of the tolerance
zone (indirectly, perpendicular to the planes), or the orientation of the axis for a cylindrical tolerance
zone. See Figures 112, 114, 116, 130 and 132.
Orientation planes shall also be indicated when it is necessary to define the orientation of a rectangular
restricted area, see Figure 67.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
14.2 Features to be used for establishing orientation planes
Only surfaces belonging to one of the following invariance classes shall be used to establish orientation
planes (see ISO 17450-1):
— revolute (e.g. a cone or a torus);
— cylindrical (i.e. a cylinder);
— planar (i.e. a plane).

--- BLOCK 4 ---
14.3 Graphical language
The orientation plane shall be specified through an orientation plane indicator placed to the right of the
tolerance indicator (see Figure 82):

--- BLOCK 5 ---
Figure 82 — Orientation plane indicator

--- BLOCK 6 ---
If necessary, the reference line can be attached to the orientation plane indicator instead of the tolerance
indicator, see Figure 46 . The orientation symbol for parallelism, perpendicularity or angularity is
placed in the first compartment of the orientation plane indicator.
The letter identifying the datum used to establish the orientation plane is placed in the second
compartment of the orientation plane indicator.

--- BLOCK 7 ---
14.4 Rules
For geometrical specifications that include orientation plane indicators, the following applies.

