--- BLOCK 1 ---
13 Intersection planes

--- BLOCK 2 ---
13.1 Role of intersection planes
Intersection planes shall be used to identify the orientation of line requirements, e.g. straightness of
a line in a plane, line profile, orientation of a line element of a feature, see Figure 90 , and “all around”
specifications for lines on surfaces.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
13.2 Features to be used for establishing a family of intersection planes
Only surfaces belonging to one of the following invariance classes shall be used to establish a family of
intersection planes (see ISO 17450-1):
— revolute (e.g. a cone or a torus);
— cylindrical (i.e. a cylinder);
— planar (i.e. a plane).

--- BLOCK 4 ---
13.3 Graphical language
The intersection plane shall be specified through an intersection plane indicator placed as an extension
to the right of the tolerance indicator (see Figure 76).

--- BLOCK 5 ---
Figure 76 — Intersection plane indicator

--- BLOCK 6 ---
If necessary, the reference line can be attached to the intersection plane indicator instead of the
tolerance indicator, see Figure 46 . The symbol defining how the intersection plane is constructed from
the datum is placed in the first compartment of the intersection plane indicator. The symbols stand for:

--- BLOCK 7 ---
parallel;

--- BLOCK 8 ---
perpendicular;

--- BLOCK 9 ---
at a defined angle;

--- BLOCK 10 ---
symmetrical to (including).
NOTE The symmetry symbol is used to indicate that the intersection plane includes (is symmetrical around)
the datum.

--- BLOCK 11 ---
The letter identifying the datum used to establish the intersection plane is placed in the second
compartment of the intersection plane indicator.

--- BLOCK 12 ---
13.4 Rules
For geometrical specifications that include intersection plane indicators, the following applies.
When the toleranced feature is a line on an integral feature, an intersection plane shall be indicated
to avoid misinterpretation of the toleranced feature, except in the case of generatrix straightness or
roundness of a cylinder, a cone or a sphere.
For deprecated practice, see A.2.1 and A.2.2.
When the toleranced feature is all the lines in a feature in a given direction, and the characteristic
symbol does not explicitly indicate whether the toleranced feature is the planar feature or the lines in

