--- BLOCK 1 ---
Table 4 (continued)
Description Symbol Reference
Datum related symbols

--- BLOCK 2 ---
Datum Feature Indicator ISO 5459

--- BLOCK 3 ---
Datum Target Indicator ISO 5459

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Contacting feature ISO 5459
Orientation constraint only ISO 5459
Size tolerance related symbol
Envelope requirement ISO 14405-1
a
The letters, values and characteristic symbols in these symbols are examples.

--- BLOCK 5 ---
6 Toleranced features
A geometrical specification applies to a single complete feature unless specifically indicated otherwise.
When the toleranced feature is not a single complete feature, see 8.4.2, Clause 9 and Clause 11.
When the geometrical specification refers to the integral feature, the geometrical specification
indication shall be connected to the toleranced feature by a reference line, see 8.4.1, and a leader line
terminating in one of the following ways:
— In 2D annotation, on the outline of the feature or an extension of the outline (but clearly separated
from the dimension line) [see Figures 1 a) and 2 a)]. The termination of the leader line is
— an arrow if it terminates on an outline or an extension line of the feature, or
— a dot when the leader line terminates within the bounds of the feature [see Figure 3 a)]. When
the surface is visible, the dot is filled out; when the surface is hidden the dot is not filled out and
the leader line is a dashed line.
— The arrow may be placed on a reference line using a leader line to point to the surface [see
Figure 3 a)].
— In 3D annotation, on the integral feature or an extension of the outline (but clearly separated from
the dimension line) [see Figures 1 b) and 2 b)]. The termination of the leader line is an arrow on an
extension line and a dot on the integral feature. When the surface is visible, the dot is filled out;
when the surface is hidden the dot is not filled out and the leader line is a dashed line.
— The termination of the leader line may be an arrow placed on a reference line using a leader line to
point to the surface [see Figure 3 b)]. The above rules for the dot terminating the leader line also
apply in this case.

