--- BLOCK 1 ---
— The areal nature of the nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given.
— Line profile:
— The shape of the nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given by complete indications on the
drawing or by queries of the CAD model, see ISO 16792.
— The linear nature of the nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
B.10.3 Orientation specifications
When an orientation specification uses the geometrical characteristic symbol of:
— Parallelism, perpendicularity:
— The shape of the nominal toleranced feature is a straight line or a plane.
— When both are possible then the toleranced feature is by default the plane, unless an intersection
plane indicator is indicated.
— The TED angles between the nominal toleranced feature and the datum or datum system are
implicitly defined as 0° for parallelism and 90° for perpendicularity.
— Angularity:
— The shape of the nominal toleranced feature is a straight line or a plane.
— When both are possible then the toleranced feature is by default the plane, unless an intersection
plane indicator is indicated.
— At least one explicit TED angle between the nominal toleranced feature and the datum or datum
system shall be defined.
— Surface profile or line profile:
— The shape of the nominal toleranced feature is explicitly given by the complete indications on
the drawing or by queries of the CAD model, see ISO 16792.
— The nature of the toleranced feature (linear or areal) is explicitly given by the symbol.
— To indicate that the specification is an orientation specification, the modifier > < shall be placed
in the second compartment of the tolerance indicator, or after each datum indication in the
tolerance indicator. The angles between the nominal toleranced feature and the datums shall
be indicated as TEDs.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
B.10.4 Location specifications
When a location specification uses the geometrical characteristic symbol of:
— Position:
— The toleranced feature is an integral or a derived feature.
— If the toleranced feature is an integral feature, the shape of the nominal toleranced feature is a
point, a straight line or a plane.
— If the toleranced feature is a derived feature, the shape of the nominal toleranced feature is a
point, a line (straight or non-straight) or a surface (plane or not plane).
— When more than one is possible then the toleranced feature is by default areal, unless an
intersection plane indicator is indicated.

