--- BLOCK 1 ---
Figure E.9 — Example of a parallelism specification with a long-wave pass filter

--- BLOCK 2 ---
Figure E.10 shows an example of a straightness specification with a short-wave pass filter. The
specification element SW indicates that a spline wavelet filter is specified. The value 8 indicates an 8 mm
cutoff and because it is preceded by “-” it is a short-wave pass filter, which removes wavelengths longer
than the cutoff value. The specification therefore applies to a feature that has been filtered with an 8 mm
short-wave pass spline wavelet filter. The intersection plane indicator adjacent to the tolerance indicator
indicates that the specification applies to line elements parallel to datum C, so each individual filtered
line shall be straight within a tolerance zone defined as the space between two lines 0,3 mm apart.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
Figure E.10 — Example of a straightness specification with a short-wave pass filter

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Short-wave pass filters can only be used for form specifications, i.e. specifications that do not reference
datums, because they remove the location and orientation attributes from the toleranced feature.
Figure E.11 shows an example of a straightness specification with a band pass filter using one filter
type. The specification element G indicates that a Gaussian filter is specified. Because there are two
numerical values separated by a “-”, this specifies a band pass filter. The first value, 0,25, indicates a
0,25 mm cutoff long-wave pass filter, which removes wavelengths shorter than the cutoff value. The
value 8 indicates an 8 mm cutoff short-wave pass filter, which removes wavelengths longer than the
cutoff value. The specification therefore applies to a feature that has been filtered with a 0,25 mm
long-wave pass Gaussian filter and an 8 mm short-wave pass Gaussian filter, which together form a
band pass filter that retains wavelengths between 0,25 mm and 8 mm, effectively making this a type
of waviness specification. The intersection plane indicator adjacent to the tolerance indicator indicates
that the specification applies to line elements parallel to datum C, so each individual filtered line shall
be straight within a tolerance zone defined as the space between two lines 0,4 mm apart.

