--- BLOCK 1 ---
A.2.4 In a 2D specification, orientation plane indicators can be omitted, instead relying on the direction
of the dimension line to define the orientation of the tolerance zone, see Figure A.3. This practice has been
deprecated to align the practices between 2D and 3D. For the preferred indication with the equivalent
meaning, see Figure 152 a)

--- BLOCK 2 ---
Figure A.3

--- BLOCK 3 ---
A.3 Former practice from ISO 1101:2012
The following drawing indications were described in ISO 1101:2012. Their use in practice has shown
that their interpretation was ambiguous. Therefore, these drawing indications should no longer be used.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
A.3.1 It was a former practice to use the NC specification element to indicate that the toleranced
feature should be “non-convex”, see Figure A.4. This specification element is no longer used, because it is
ambiguous what exactly constitutes a non-convex feature, i.e. how close to the edge of the feature should
a plane contact the feature for it to be considered non-convex. There is no replacement for this indication
in this document, since it is a qualitative concept. If needed, it can be added as a note on the drawing.

--- BLOCK 5 ---
Figure A.4

--- BLOCK 6 ---
A.3.2 It was a former practice to use the “from…to” symbol “ ” if the tolerance value was variable
along the toleranced feature. Because the specification was unambiguous without the separate “from…
to” symbol, practice has been changed to use the “between” symbol “ ” together with the letters
identifying the start and the end of the toleranced feature in all cases where a specification either applies
to a restricted part of a feature or the tolerance value was variable. For the current indication, see
Figure 14.

--- BLOCK 7 ---
A.3.3 It was former practice that for all revolutes, the default direction for roundness specifications
was perpendicular to the associated axis of the revolute surface, see Figure A.5. This was an exception to
the general rule that geometrical specifications for integral features apply perpendicular to the surface. A

