--- BLOCK 1 ---
— shall be used to indicate the least squares (Gaussian) association with the constraint external
to the material. It minimizes the square of the local deviations of the toleranced feature to the
reference feature while maintaining the reference feature external to the material.
— shall be used to indicate the least squares (Gaussian) association with the constraint internal to the
material. It minimizes the square of the local deviations of the toleranced feature to the reference
feature while maintaining the reference feature internal to the material.
NOTE 2 The least squares (Gaussian) associations are similar to the minimax (Chebyshev) associations shown
in Figure 38, except what is minimized is not the maximum distance to the associated feature but the square root
of the sum of the squares of the local deviations between the toleranced feature and the reference feature.
NOTE 3 The least squares (Gaussian) association without constraint, the least squares (Gaussian) association
with the constraint external to the material and the least squares (Gaussian) association with the constraint
internal to the material (equivalent to keys c, g and h in Figure 38 ) are not parallel by definition.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
— shall be used to indicate the maximum inscribed association. It is only available for toleranced
features of linear size. It maximizes the size of the reference feature while maintaining it entirely
inside the toleranced feature. See Figure 39.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
a
b
c
d

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Toleranced feature of size.
Size of the associated feature (maximized).
Equalized distance, in case of unstable association.
Maximum inscribed associated feature of size.

--- BLOCK 5 ---
Figure 39 — Maximum inscribed association

--- BLOCK 6 ---
— shall be used to indicate the minimum circumscribed association. It is only available for toleranced
features of linear size. It minimizes the size of the reference feature while maintaining it entirely
outside the toleranced feature. See Figure 40.

--- BLOCK 7 ---
a
b
e

--- BLOCK 8 ---
Toleranced feature of size.
Size of the associated feature (minimized).
Minimum circumscribed associated feature of size.

--- BLOCK 9 ---
Figure 40 — Minimum circumscribed association

--- BLOCK 10 ---
Figure 41 shows an example of a straightness specification that applies relative to the least squares
(Gaussian) reference feature. The intersection plane indicator indicates that the direction of the
toleranced lines is parallel to datum C.

