--- BLOCK 1 ---
NOTE 2 For flat surfaces and straight lines, it is often possible to use, for example, parallelism instead of
position to achieve the same effect as .

--- BLOCK 2 ---
8.2.2.1.4.2 Unspecified angular tolerance zone offset specification element
The modifier shall be indicated in the zone, feature and characteristic section of the tolerance
indicator when the tolerance zone is defined from a TEF, which is an angular feature of size, having its
size considered variable (unspecified), see Figure 24. See also example in ISO 3040.
The nominal angular size of the TEF may not be defined by a TED for cones, e.g. in the case where there
is only a ± tolerance indicated for the angular size. In this case, the specification element shall always
be indicated for line profile specifications and surface profile specifications to make it explicit that the
angular size of the TEF is not fixed.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
Figure 24 — Variable angle, VA, modifier

--- BLOCK 4 ---
NOTE Because there are no bounds on the angular offset, a specification with the VA modifier is usually
combined with another specification (angular dimensional specification or geometrical specification without VA
modifier), see example in Figure 24.

--- BLOCK 5 ---
8.2.2.1.4.3 Orientation only specification element
The orientation only symbol >< shall be indicated in the zone, feature and characteristic section of the
tolerance indicator when the tolerance zone translation is unconstrained, i.e. only rotational degrees
of freedom for the tolerance zone are constrained in a specification that would otherwise have its
translational degrees of freedom constrained by datums. See also ISO 5459.
NOTE 1 For flat surfaces and straight lines, it is often possible to use, for example, parallelism instead of
position to achieve the same effect as orientation only.
NOTE 2 Orientation only allows the tolerance zone to translate untransformed, whereas the tolerance zone
is transformed when using (inside radii becomes smaller and outside radii becomes bigger). This difference
is significant for non-straight and non-flat surfaces and for features of size. In Figure 23 , if orientation only had
been used instead of , key 3 would not have been transformed, but would have had the same shape as key 1. For
single flat surfaces and single straight lines, the effect of and orientation only is the same.

--- BLOCK 6 ---
8.2.2.2 Toleranced feature specification element

--- BLOCK 7 ---
8.2.2.2.1 Filter specification elements
All the terms related to filtration are defined in ISO 16610-1:2015. The specific filters are defined in the
other parts of ISO 16610.

