--- BLOCK 1 ---
Geometrical product specifications (GPS) — Geometrical
tolerancing — Tolerances of form, orientation, location
and run-out

--- BLOCK 2 ---
IMPORTANT — The illustrations included in this document are intended to illustrate the text
and/or to provide examples of the related technical drawing specification; these illustrations are
not fully dimensioned and toleranced, showing only the relevant general principles. In particular,
many illustrations do not contain filter specifications. As a consequence, the illustrations are
not a representation of a complete workpiece, and are not of a quality that is required for use in
industry (in terms of full conformity with the standards prepared by ISO/TC 10 and ISO/TC 213),
and as such are not suitable for projection for teaching purposes.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
1 Scope
This document defines the symbol language for geometrical specification of workpieces and the rules
for its interpretation.
It provides the foundation for geometrical specification.
The illustrations in this document are intended to illustrate how a specification can be fully indicated
with visible annotation (including e.g. TEDs).
NOTE 1 Other International Standards referenced in Clause 2 and in Tables 3 and 4 provide more detailed
information on geometrical tolerancing.
NOTE 2 This document gives rules for explicit and direct indications of geometrical specifications.
Alternatively, the same specifications can be indicated indirectly in accordance with ISO 16792 by attaching
them to a 3D CAD model. In this case, it is possible that some elements of the specification are available through
a query function or other interrogation of information on the model instead of being indicated using visible
annotation.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
2 Normative references
The following documents are referred to in the text in such a way that some or all of their content
constitutes requirements of this document. For dated references, only the edition cited applies. For
undated references, the latest edition of the referenced document (including any amendments) applies.
ISO 128-24:1999, Technical drawings — General principles of presentation — Part 24: Lines on mechanical
engineering drawings
ISO 1660, Technical drawings — Dimensioning and tolerancing of profiles
ISO 2692:2014, Geometrical product specifications (GPS) — Geometrical tolerancing — Maximum material
requirement (MMR), least material requirement (LMR) and reciprocity requirement (RPR)
ISO 5458, Geometrical Product Specifications (GPS) — Geometrical tolerancing — Positional tolerancing
ISO 5459, Geometrical product specifications (GPS) — Geometrical tolerancing — Datums and datum systems
ISO 8015:2011, Geometrical product specifications (GPS) — Fundamentals — Concepts, principles and rules
ISO 10579:2010, Geometrical product specifications (GPS) — Dimensioning and tolerancing — Non-
rigid parts
ISO 13715, Technical drawings — Edges of undefined shape — Vocabulary and indications

