--- BLOCK 1 ---
Key
1 examples of lines of the length indicated after the oblique stroke, which are parallel to the tangent lines of the
toleranced feature at their mid-points. One of these lines exists for each point along the toleranced feature
2 perpendicular projections of the end points of the lines (1) onto the toleranced feature
3 toleranced feature
4 restricted portions of the toleranced feature

--- BLOCK 2 ---
Figure 68 — Linear restricted portion of a toleranced feature

--- BLOCK 3 ---
For areal restricted portions, the restricted portion is defined as an area identified by an orthogonal
projection of the indicated shape onto the toleranced feature with the centre of the indicated shape
aligned perpendicular to the normal of the toleranced feature at this point.
NOTE The area of the restricted portion is larger than the area indicated after the oblique stroke, unless the
toleranced feature is nominally planar.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Because of the feature principle and the independency principle, see ISO 8015, when a form requirement
is limited to a restricted portion of the feature or any restricted portion of the feature, only the
restricted portion shall be considered when associating the reference feature, see ISO 25378.

--- BLOCK 5 ---
12 Projected toleranced feature
The modifier after the tolerance value in the second compartment of the tolerance indicator shall
be used to indicate a projected toleranced feature; see Figures 69 and 70. In this case, the toleranced
feature is either a portion of the extended feature or its derived feature (see Clause 6 and Table 7).
The extended feature is an associated feature constructed from the integral feature. The default
association criterion for the extended feature is a minimized maximum distance between the indicated
integral feature and the associated feature with the additional constraint of external contact of material.

--- BLOCK 6 ---
Table 7 — Feature toleranced with the projected tolerance modifier
The leader line from the tolerance indicator points Toleranced feature
On a cylinder (but not in extension of a dimension line) Portion of the associated cylinder
In extension of a dimension line of a cylinder Portion of the axis of the associated cylinder
On a plane (but not in extension of a dimension line) Portion of the associated plane
In extension of a dimension line of two opposite par- Portion of the median plane of two associated parallel planes
allel planes

--- BLOCK 7 ---
For associated planes, the width and location of the extended plane in the direction perpendicular to
the projection is equal to the width and location of the plane defining the projected toleranced feature.
The limits of the relevant portion of this extended feature shall be clearly defined and shall be indicated
either directly or indirectly, as follows.
When indicating the projected toleranced feature length directly on the drawing by a “virtual” integral
feature representing the portion of the extended feature to be considered, this virtual feature shall be

