--- BLOCK 1 ---
8.4 Indications adjacent to the tolerance indicator

--- BLOCK 2 ---
8.4.1 General
There are three areas adjacent to the tolerance indicator where supplementary indications can be
indicated, see Figure 46.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
a
Upper/lower adjacent indication area.
b
Inline adjacent indication area.
NOTE While indications in the upper and lower adjacent indication areas mean the same, it is preferable to
use the upper adjacent indication area, if practical.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Figure 46 — Adjacent indication areas

--- BLOCK 5 ---
Indications that apply to all the tolerance indicators attached to the leader line as well as any
dimensional specifications shall be indicated in the upper or lower adjacent indication area. The
meaning of indications in the upper and lower adjacent indication areas is identical. Only one of these
adjacent areas shall be used.
Indications that only apply to one tolerance indicator shall be indicated in an inline adjacent indication
area for that tolerance indicator. Figure 46 shows the placement of inline adjacent indication areas,
depending on which end of the tolerance indication the reference line is attached to.
When there is only one tolerance indicator, indications in the upper/lower adjacent indication areas and
in the inline adjacent indication area mean the same. In this case, only one adjacent indication area shall
be used and it is preferable to use the upper adjacent indication area, if practical.
Indications in the upper/lower adjacent indication areas shall be left aligned. Indications in the inline
adjacent indication area shall be left aligned if it is to the right of the tolerance indicator and right
aligned if it is to the left of the tolerance indicator.

--- BLOCK 6 ---
8.4.2 Toleranced feature identifiers
If the toleranced feature is not the entire single feature indicated by the leader line and arrow attached
to the tolerance indicator, an indication shall be given indicating the toleranced feature.
— , if the toleranced feature is an intersection line or an intersection point defined as the intersection
between an extracted integral feature and a section plane, or between an extracted median line
and an intersection plane, see Figure 47. If a datum is indicated, the specification element also
modifies the datum feature to be in the corresponding cross-section. The cross-section applies
perpendicular to the indicated datum or the situation straight line of the integral feature. The
specification element can only be applied to revolute surfaces, cylindrical surfaces or prismatic
surfaces.
— Letters indicating locations on the feature, separated by the between symbol, if the toleranced
feature is a restricted feature, see Figure 60 and Figure 63, or the width of the tolerance zone varies
proportionally between the locations, see Figure 10 and Figure 14. For former practice, see A.3.2.

