--- BLOCK 1 ---
4.3 A feature is a specific portion of the workpiece, such as a point, a line or a surface; these features
can be integral features (e.g. the external surface of a cylinder) or derived features (e.g. a median line or
median surface). See ISO 17450-1.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
4.4 Depending on the characteristic to be specified and the manner in which it is specified, the
tolerance zone is one of the following:
— the space within a circle;
— the space between two concentric circles;
— the space between two parallel circles on a conical surface;
— the space between two parallel circles of the same diameter;
— the space between two equidistant complex lines or two parallel straight lines;
— the space between two non-equidistant complex lines or two non-parallel straight lines;
— the space within a cylinder;
— the space between two coaxial cylinders;
— the space within a cone;
— the space within a single complex surface;
— the space between two equidistant complex surfaces or two parallel planes;
— the space within a sphere;
— the space between two non-equidistant complex surfaces or two non-parallel planes.
NOTE The tolerance zone may be defined in the CAD model.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
4.5 Unless a more restrictive indication is required, for example by an explanatory note, the toleranced
feature may be of any form, orientation and/or location within this tolerance zone.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
4.6 The specification applies to the whole extent of the considered feature unless otherwise specified.
See Clauses 11 and 12.
Currently, the detailed rules for partitioning (defining the boundary of the toleranced feature) are not
elaborated in GPS standards. This leads to an ambiguity of specification.

--- BLOCK 5 ---
4.7 Geometrical specifications which are assigned to features related to a datum(s) do not limit the
form deviations of the datum feature(s) itself.

--- BLOCK 6 ---
4.8 For functional reasons, one or more characteristics can be specified to define the geometrical
deviations of a feature. Certain types of specifications, which limit the geometrical deviations of a
toleranced feature, can also limit other types of deviations for the same feature.
— A location specification controls location deviation, orientation deviation and form deviation of the
toleranced feature.
— An orientation specification controls orientation and form deviations of the toleranced feature but
cannot control its location.
— A form specification controls only form deviations of the toleranced feature.

