--- BLOCK 1 ---
Table 6 — Symbols for default filtering and association
Symbol Meaning Scope of default
FC Form association criterion Form specifications
All form, location, orientation
TF Toleranced feature filter
and runout specifications
TFF Toleranced feature, form, filter Form specifications
Toleranced feature, orientation,
TFO Orientation specifications
filter
TFL Toleranced feature, location, filter Location specifications
EXAMPLE 1 ISO 1101 TF: G0,8-×50- specifies that the default filtering is a Gaussian long-pass filter with
0,8 mm cut-off for open profiles and 50 UPR for closed profiles.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
The drawing default for form association can be indicated near the title block, by indicating “ISO 1101
FC”: followed by the symbol for the default association from Table D.1 . FC stands for “form characteristic”.
EXAMPLE 2 ISO 1101 FC: G specifies that the default association criterion for form is the least squares
(Gaussian) feature.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
9 Supplementary indications

--- BLOCK 4 ---
9.1 Indications of a compound or restricted toleranced feature

--- BLOCK 5 ---
9.1.1 General
When the toleranced feature is a portion of a single feature, or a compound continuous feature, then it
shall be indicated either as
— a continuous, closed feature (single or compound), see 9.1.2,
— a restricted area of a single surface, 9.1.3, or
— a continuous, non-closed feature (single or compound), see 9.1.4.

--- BLOCK 6 ---
9.1.2 All around and all over — Continuous, closed tolerance feature
If a geometrical specification is applied to the outlines of the cross-sections or if it is applied to all
features represented by a closed outline, it shall be indicated by the symbol “all around” placed on the
intersection of the leader line and the reference line of the tolerance indicator (see examples Figure 51
and 53 ). A collection plane indicator shall be used to identify the collection plane in 3D and is preferred
in 2D. For deprecated 2D practice, see A.2.3 . An all around requirement applies only to the surfaces
identified by the collection plane, not to the entire workpiece (see Figure 52 and 54).
If a geometrical specification is applied to all integral features of a workpiece it shall be indicated by the
symbol “all over” (see example Figure 55).
An “all around” or “all over” symbol shall always be combined with an SZ (separate zones), CZ
(combined zone) or UF (united feature) specification element, except in the case where the referenced
datum system locks all non-redundant degrees of freedom.
If the SZ specification element is used in conjunction with the “all around” or “all over” symbol, the
characteristic shall be applied as individual requirements to the indicated features, i.e. the tolerance
zones for the features are not related to each other and the use of the “all around” or “all over” symbol
is equivalent to using n leader lines with one pointing to each toleranced feature, or the indication
n × adjacent to the tolerance indicator.
If the characteristic shall be applied as a pattern of zones for all the requirements to the indicated
features, i.e. the tolerance zones for all the features are in a theoretically exact relationship to each

