--- BLOCK 1 ---
Figure 41 — Specification using the least squares (Gaussian) reference feature specification
element

--- BLOCK 2 ---
Figure 42 shows an example of a roundness specification that applies relative to the minimum
circumscribed reference feature after the application of a Gaussian long-wave pass filter with a cutoff
value of 50 UPR. The filter type specification element shall always be followed by the nesting index
value and the reference feature specification element consists of letters only. When they both apply in
the same specification, the filter type specification element shall always precede the reference feature
specification element.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
Figure 42 — Specification using a filter specification element and the minimum circumscribed
reference feature specification element

--- BLOCK 4 ---
8.2.2.3.2 Parameter specification element
The default parameter that applies when no specification element is indicated is the total range
of deviations, i.e. the distance from the lowest valley on the toleranced feature to the reference
feature plus the distance from the highest peak of the toleranced feature to the reference feature.
The parameter specification element is an optional specification element. It can be used for form
specifications, i.e. specifications that do not reference datums, and other specifications that have at
least one unconstrained non-redundant degree of freedom.
The following parameter specification elements are available.
— may be used to indicate the total range of deviations, i.e. the default parameter, see Figure 43.
— shall be used to indicate the peak height, i.e. the distance from the highest peak of the toleranced
feature to the reference feature. The peak height is only defined relative to the minimax (Chebyshev)
association and the least squares (Gaussian) association, i.e. the association specification elements
and , see Figure 43.
— shall be used to indicate the valley depth, i.e. the distance from the lowest valley of the toleranced
feature to the reference feature. The valley depth is only defined relative to the minimax (Chebyshev)
association and the least squares (Gaussian) association, i.e. the association specification elements
and , see Figure 43.

