--- BLOCK 1 ---
Currently, there is no default filtering defined in the GPS standards. Consequently, the filtering is
undefined if it is not explicitly given using these specification elements or other means, see also C.3.
This adds an ambiguity of specification, see ISO 17450-2.
NOTE See A.3.7 for former filtering practice.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
The filter specification is an optional specification element. The specified filtering of the toleranced
feature shall be indicated by a combination of two specification elements. One indicates the type of
filter specified, the other indicates the nesting index or indices for the filter.
The symbols for the standardized filters are given in Table C.1 . For details on the effect of filters and
examples of filter indications, see Annex E.
The nesting indices and their meaning for each filter type are given in Table C.2 . For a long-wave pass filter
the index shall be followed by a “-”. For a short-wave pass filter the index shall be preceded by a “-” . For a
band pass filter using the same filter type for both sides, the long-wave pass filter index shall be given first
and the short-wave pass filter index shall be given second. The indices shall be separated by a “-” .
For Fourier filters only, indicated by the specification element F (Fourier), a single value shall be
indicated when the specification applies to a single harmonic (wavelength or UPR number). If the
specification applies to a filtered feature containing a range of harmonics, the indication shall follow
the rules given above.
For band pass filters using different filter types, the long-wave pass filter shall be indicated before the
short-wave pass filter.
In the specification operator for band pass filters, the long-wave pass filter shall be applied before the
short-wave pass filter.
Short-wave pass filters and band pass filters shall only be used for form specifications, i.e. specifications
that do not reference datums, because they remove the location and orientation attributes from the
toleranced feature.
For open features, e.g. straight lines, planes and cylinders in the axial direction, the nesting index shall
be indicated in mm. For closed features, e.g. cylinders in the circumferential direction, tori and spheres,
the nesting index shall be indicated in UPR (undulations per revolution). The units shall not be indicated.
If two different filters shall be used in the two directions for a feature that is open in both directions,
e.g. a plane, an intersection plane indicator shall be used to indicate the direction in which the first
indicated filter shall be applied. “×” shall be used to separate the two filter indications. The second
indicated filter shall be applied in the direction perpendicular to the first filter direction.
For a feature that is open in one direction and closed in the other direction, e.g. a cylinder, the filter
for the open direction shall be indicated before the filter for the closed direction. “×” shall be used to
separate the two filter indications.
If both filters are of the same type, regardless of whether the two directions are both open (e.g. a plane),
both closed (e.g. a sphere) or one of each (e.g. a cylinder), the filter type shall be indicated only once.
When the toleranced feature is a derived feature or an associated feature, the filtration shall be applied
on the integral feature before the derivation or association operation.
See E.2 for examples of specifications using filters.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
8.2.2.2.2 Associated toleranced feature specification element
By default, the specification applies to the indicated extracted integral or derived feature itself. The
associated toleranced feature specification element is an optional specification element. It shall be
used to indicate that the specification does not apply to the indicated feature itself, but to a feature
associated with it. If a filter is indicated, the association shall be to the filtered feature.

