--- BLOCK 1 ---
Introduction

--- BLOCK 2 ---
This document is a geometrical product specification (GPS) standard and is to be regarded as a general
GPS standard (see ISO 14638). It influences chain links A, B and C of the chain of standards on form,
orientation, location and run out.
The ISO GPS Masterplan given in ISO 14638 gives an overview of the ISO GPS system of which this
document is a part. The fundamental rules of ISO GPS given in ISO 8015 apply to this document.
The default decision rules given in ISO 14253-1 apply to specifications made in accordance with this
document, unless otherwise stated.
For more detailed information on the relation of this document to the GPS matrix model, see Annex G.
This document represents the initial basis and describes the required fundamentals for geometrical
tolerancing. Nevertheless, it is advisable to consult the separate standards referenced in Clause 2 and in
Tables 3 and 4 for more detailed information.
For the presentation of lettering (proportions and dimensions), see ISO 3098-2.
All figures in this document for the 2D drawing indications have been drawn in first-angle projection
with dimensions and tolerances in millimetres. It should be understood that third-angle projection
and other units of measurement could have been used equally well without prejudice to the principles
established. For all figures giving specification examples in 3D, the dimensions and tolerances are the
same as for the similar figures shown in 2D.
The figures in this document represent either 2D drawing views or 3D axonometric views on 2D
drawings and are intended to illustrate how a specification can be fully indicated with visible
annotation. For possibilities of illustrating a specification where elements of the specification may be
available through a query function or other interrogation of information on the 3D CAD model and rules
for attaching specifications to 3D CAD models, see ISO 16792.
The figures in this document illustrate the text and are not intended to reflect an actual application.
Consequently, the figures are not fully dimensioned and specified, showing only the relevant general
principles. Neither are the figures intended to imply a particular display requirement in terms of
whether hidden detail, tangent lines or other annotations are shown or not shown. Many figures have
lines or details removed for clarity, or added or extended to assist with the illustration of the text. See
Table 1 for the line types used in definition figures.
In order for a GPS specification to be unambiguous, the partition defining the boundary of the toleranced
feature, as well as the filtering, has to be well defined. Currently, the detailed rules for partitioning and
the default for filtering are not defined in GPS standards.
For a definitive presentation (proportions and dimensions) of the symbolization for geometrical
tolerancing, see ISO 7083 and Annex F.
Annex A has been provided for information only. It presents previous drawing indications that have
been omitted here and are no longer used.
For the purposes of this document, the terms “axis” and “median plane” are used for derived features
of perfect form, and the terms “median line” and “median surface” for derived features of imperfect
form. Furthermore, the following line types have been used in the explanatory illustrations, i.e. those
representing non-technical drawings for which the rules of ISO 128 (all parts) apply.

