--- BLOCK 1 ---
Annex B

--- BLOCK 2 ---
(informative)
Explicit and implicit rules for geometrical tolerance zones

--- BLOCK 3 ---
B.1 Tolerance indicator
The tolerance indicator for a geometrical specification defines the toleranced feature, the specified
characteristic and tolerances zone(s) and the relations between tolerance zones for the toleranced
feature(s) and a datum or a datum system.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
B.2 Tolerance zone
Geometrical tolerance zones are established from the nominal model (theoretically exact geometry)
Tolerance zones are limited by theoretical exact geometries defined from theoretically exact
features (TEFs).

--- BLOCK 5 ---
B.3 Theoretical exact dimension (TED)
TED(s) exist in the nominal model.
A TED can be a linear TED (length unit) or an angular TED (angle unit).
TED(s) can only be used for the following purposes:
— connection of two or more tolerance zones;
— connection of one or more tolerance zones to a datum or datum system;
— definition of a theoretical exact feature (TEF);
— connection and orientation of datum targets;
— location and dimensions of a restricted toleranced feature;
— direction of the width of the tolerance zone.
An implicit linear TED zero (0) is created, if a point or a line is indicated on a datum axis or a datum
plane on the drawing.
Implicit angular TEDs of zero (0°) and/or 90° can be created, if a pattern is indicated on the drawing,
see ISO 5458.
Implicit angular TEDs of zero (0°) and 90° are also created for the relation between a tolerance zone
(type two parallel planes and type cylinder) and the planes and axes of a datum or datum system, if no
other TED angles are indicated on the drawing and the specification references these datums.
Implicit angular TEDs (360°/Number of tolerance zones) are created between tolerance zones indicated
on the drawing as equally distributed on a circle.

--- BLOCK 6 ---
B.4 Pattern
A pattern contains two or more tolerance zones connected by TED(s), see ISO 5458.
Members of a pattern shall be positively identified (e.g. 4×, etc.).

