--- BLOCK 1 ---
Figure E.16 shows an example of a cylindricity specification. The specification element G indicates that
a Gaussian filter is specified. Because it is a cylindricity specification, the toleranced feature is an open
feature in the axial direction and a closed feature in the circumferential direction. The nesting index
in the axial direction is therefore given in mm and the nesting index in the circumferential direction is
given in UPR. By convention, the axial filter value is given before the circumferential filter value. The
value 8 therefore indicates 8 mm and the value 15 indicates 15 UPR. Because each of them is followed
by “-” they are both long-wave pass filters. The specification therefore applies to a feature that has been
filtered with an 8 mm Gaussian long-wave pass filter in the axial direction and a 15 UPR Gaussian long-
wave pass filter in the circumferential direction. The filtered surface shall be contained in a tolerance
zone defined as the space between two coaxial cylinders with a 0,05 mm radius difference. Because
both filters are of the same type, the type is not indicated twice as it was in Figure E.15.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
Figure E.16 — Example of a cylindricity specification — Gaussian filter

--- BLOCK 3 ---
Figure E.17 shows an example of a roundness specification. The specification element F (Fourier)
indicates that the specification applies to a single harmonic (wavelength or UPR number) or a range
of harmonics. The value 7 indicates 7 UPR as the identified harmonic, as the specification applies to
a closed feature (a circle). The specification therefore applies to the 7th harmonic of the feature. Each
individual filtered circumferential line shall be contained in a tolerance zone defined as the space
between two concentric circles with 0,02 mm radius difference.
NOTE Because UPR values are reverse of wavelengths and the short wavelength is indicated first, the higher
UPR value is indicated first for band-pass filters for closed features.

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Figure E.17 — Example of a roundness specification that applied to a single or a range of
harmonics

--- BLOCK 5 ---
An indication of e.g. “F7-” shall be used to indicate that the specification applies to a filtered feature that
includes all harmonics longer than (lower UPR numbers) or equal to the indicated value, in this case all
harmonics from 1 UPR to 7 UPR. An indication of e.g. “F-7” shall be used to indicate that the specification
applies to a filtered feature that includes all harmonics shorter than (higher UPR numbers) or equal to
the indicated value, in this case all harmonics from 7 UPR and higher. An indication of e.g. “F7-2” shall
be used to indicate that the specification applies to a filtered feature that includes the indicated range
of harmonics, in this case all harmonics from 2 UPR to 7 UPR.
Figure E.18 shows an example of a position specification. The specification element H indicates that the
specification applies to the feature after the application of a hull filter. The value 0 indicates that the

