--- BLOCK 1 ---
17.8 Surface profile specification not related to a datum
The toleranced feature can be an integral feature or a derived feature. The nature of the nominal
toleranced feature is explicitly given as an areal feature. The shape of the nominal toleranced feature,
except in the case of a flat surface, shall be explicitly given by complete indications on the drawing or by
queries of the CAD model, see ISO 16792.
In Figure 108, the extracted surface shall be contained between two equidistant surfaces enveloping
spheres of diameter 0,02, the centres of which are situated on a surface having the theoretically exact
geometrical form.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
a) 2D b) 3D

--- BLOCK 3 ---
Figure 108 — Surface profile indication

--- BLOCK 4 ---
The tolerance zone defined by the specification in Figure 108 is limited by two surfaces enveloping
spheres of diameter t , the centres of which are situated on a surface having the theoretically exact
geometrical form, see Figure 109.

--- BLOCK 5 ---
Figure 109 — Definition of the surface profile tolerance zone

--- BLOCK 6 ---
17.9 Surface profile specification related to a datum
The toleranced feature can be an integral feature or a derived feature. The nature of the nominal
toleranced feature is explicitly given as an areal feature. The shape of the nominal toleranced feature,
except in the case of a flat surface, shall be explicitly given by complete indications on the drawing or by
queries of the CAD model, see ISO 16792.
If the specification is an orientation specification, the >< specification element shall be placed in the
second compartment of the tolerance indicator or after each datum indication in the tolerance indicator,
or no datum that is able to lock a non-redundant translation of the tolerance zone shall be indicated.
The angular dimensions that are locked between the nominal toleranced feature and the datums shall
be defined by explicit or implicit TEDs or both, see ISO 5459.
If the specification is a location specification, at least one datum that locks a non-redundant translation
of the tolerance zone shall be indicated in the tolerance indicator. The angular and linear dimensions

