--- BLOCK 1 ---
8.4.3 Patterns
Additional information can be given in an adjacent indication area to identify the features to which the
specification(s) applies, see Figure 64. This includes the number of patterns, the number of features
within each pattern, identification of the features that belong to the pattern, and any size tolerances
that apply to features of size in the pattern, to which the specification applies, as well as information
about the extent of the feature(s) to which the specification applies.
For further information about patterns, see ISO 5458.

--- BLOCK 2 ---
8.4.4 Adjacent indication sequence
If there is more than one indication in an adjacent indication area, the indications shall be given in the
following sequence, with a space between each indication:
— indications of multiple toleranced features, e.g. n × or n × m ×, see ISO 5458;
— dimensional tolerance indication, see ISO 14405-1 and ISO 286-1;
— “between” indication(s) unrelated to United Feature, see 9.1.4;
— for United Feature and n× for the number of features used to build each united feature, see 8.4.2,
or “between” indications to define the extent of the united feature;
— for sections, see 8.4.2;
— , or for threads and gears, see 8.4.2.

--- BLOCK 3 ---
8.5 Stacked tolerance indications
If it is necessary to specify more than one geometrical characteristic for a feature, the requirements
may be given in tolerance indicators one under the other for convenience (see the example in Figure 50).

--- BLOCK 4 ---
Figure 50 — Stacked tolerance indication

--- BLOCK 5 ---
In this case, it is recommended that the tolerance indicators are arranged such that the tolerance values
are shown in descending order from top to bottom, as shown in Figure 50.
In this case, the reference line shall be attached to the mid-point of the left-hand end or the right-hand
end of one of the tolerance indicators, depending on space, not as an extension of the line between the
tolerance indicators. This applies both in 2D and 3D.

--- BLOCK 6 ---
8.6 Indication of drawing defaults
ISO defaults exist for the shape of the tolerance zone, reference feature association (8.2.2.3.1),
characteristic (parameter) (8.2.2.3.2) and toleranced feature (pitch diameter) for screw threads (8.4.2).
The wide range of applications of this document makes it impossible to identify a filtering default that
will be applicable for a large proportion of users.
Drawing defaults for filtering can be indicated in or near the title block, either as one default for all
geometrical specifications, or as separate defaults for form, orientation and location, by writing
“ISO 1101”, followed by the relevant symbol from Table 6 and a “:”, followed by the default filtering, see
Annex C.

